# Partner-RBR

Partner-RBR is a predictor used to identify multi-type RNA-binding residues based on informative protein sequence.



### Dataset

RNA-binding proteins were collected in `train.txt` and `test.txt`,  and the data format was as follows: 

```
# Example
>O42661 (Uniprotid)
MKLVRFLMKLTNETVSIELKNGTIVHGTITSVDMQMNTHLKAVKMTVKGREPVPVETLSIRGNNIRYYILPDSLPLDTLLIDDSTKPKQKKKEVVRGRGRGRGRGTRGRGRGASRGF (Sequence)
000100000000000000010000000000000111100000000000000000000000111001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for RNA-binding)
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for rRNA-binding)
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for tRNA-binding)
000100000000000000010000000000000111100000000000000000000000111001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for snRNA-binding)
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for mRNA-binding)
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 (label for SRP-binding)
```



### Feature

Partner-RBR has applied three features: protein sequence feature extracted from MSA, protein embedding representation based on the ProtT5 language model, and protein structural information based on AlphaFold2-predicted protein structure.

##### Protein sequence feature based on MSA

- Using [PSI-BLAST](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/executables/blast+/2.2.26/) to generate PSSM (`uniprotid.prf`)

- Using [PSIPRED](http://bioinf.cs.ucl.ac.uk/psipred) to generate SS (`uniprotid.ss2`)
- Using [SANN](https://github.com/newtonjoo/sann) to generate RSA (`uniprotid.a3`)

##### Protein amino acid embedding based on ProtT5

The protein amino acid embedding (`uniprotid.npy`) was generated by ProtT5 (`./scripts/embedding/ProtT5.ipynb`)

##### Protein structure information based on AlphaFold2

The predicted structure (`AF-uniprotid.pdb`) was generated by AlphaFold2, which can be found at [AlphaFold DB](https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/) or running at [AlphaFold2 Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/sokrypton/ColabFold/blob/main/AlphaFold2.ipynb).

And then, SNB-PSSM (`uniprotif_snb.xlsx`)  was generated from PSSM and predicted-feature by running `./scripts/snb-pssm/main.m`.



### Usage

1. Generate feature profile for each protein. [`./feature_generation/`]

   -- snb_pssm.py  :  Load  `uniprotid_snb.xlsx` and transform it to `uniprotid_snb-pssm.npy`;

   -- Resfea.py  :  Generate sequence feature for each residues in our dataset (`uniprotid_all_fea.npy`)

   -- structure_adj.py  :  Generate  structure feature for each residues  by AlphaFold-predicted structure(`uniprotid_neibor.npy`)

   -- feature_aggreation.py  :  Generate the input of our model， which contains sequence feature, structure feature, and label. And then, we would get the data used in five-fold cross-validtion (`./path to save/train_balance.pkl` and `./path to save/valid.pkl`) and test (`./path to save/test.pickle`).

   >  The source file for protein feature was shown in the `./example/`

2. Train our model. [`./dml/`, `./torch_model/`]

   `./dml/data_loader.py` transform our data (`*.pkl`) to tensor form.

   TextCNN was used to capture latent feature based on our input feature, and its  configuration and code were in `./torch_model/`.

    `./dml/Trainer.py` was used to perform mutual learning, while `./dml/Ind_Trainer` was used to perform independent learning.

   Run `./dml_main.py` to train the model based on our training data, and the trained model was save at `./dml/5cv_ckpt/dml_50/`

3. Predict proteins in public test set by our trained model. [`./predict.py`]

4. Case study was shown in `./result/`. Each type of RNA-binding protein was random selected an example to show its prediction performance.

















